Optimal at this altitude,
I can run flat out for a half mile before my hands start shaking it.
I'm a cybernetic organism living.
This episode is brought to you by Wealthfront and this is a very unique sponsor.
Wealthfront is a massively disruptive in a good way,
set it and forget it.
Investing service led by technologists from places like apple and world famous
investors.
It has exploded in popularity in the last two years and they now have more than
two and a half billion dollars under management.
In fact,
some of my very good friends,
investors in silicon valley have millions of their own money in Wealthfront.
So the question is why?
Why is it so popular?
Why is it unique?
Because you can get services previously reserved for the ultra wealthy but only
pay pennies on the dollar for them.
And this is because they use smarter software instead of retail locations,
bloated sales teams,
et cetera.
And I'll come back to that in a second.
I suggest you check out wealthfront.com forward slash Tim take the risk
assessment quiz which only takes two to five minutes and they'll show you for
free exactly the portfolio they'd put you in and if you just want to take their
advice,
run with it,
do it yourself.
You can do that or as I would,
you can set it and forget it and here's why.
The value of Wealthfront is in the automation of habits and strategies that
investors should be using on a regular basis but normally aren't great investing
is a marathon,
not a sprint,
and little things that you may or may not be familiar with like automatic tax
loss harvesting,
rebalancing your portfolio,
cross more than 10 asset classes and dividend reinvestment add up to very large
amounts of money over longer periods of time.
Wealthfront,
as I mentioned,
since it's using software instead of retail locations,
etc. Can offer all of this at low costs that were previously completely
impossible right off the bat,
you never pay commissions or account fees for everything.
They charge 0.25% per year on assets above the first 15,000 which is managed for
free.
If you use my link,
wealthfront.com forward slash Tim,
that is less than $5 a month to invest a $30,000 account for instance.
Now,
normally when I have a sponsor on the show,
it's because I use them and recommend them.
In this case,
it's a little different.
I don't use Wealthfront yet because I'm not allowed to.
Here's the deal.
They wanted to sponsor this podcast,
but because of sec regulations,
companies that invest your money are not allowed to use client testimonials.
So I couldn't be a user end have them on the podcast,
but I've been so impressed by Wealthfront that I've invested a significant
amount of my own money,
at least for me,
uh,
in the team and the company itself.
So I am an investor and hope to soon use it as a client.
Now back to the recommendation as a Tim Ferriss show listener,
you'll get $15,000 managed for free if you decide to open an account.
But just start with seeing the portfolio that they would suggest for you.
Take two minutes,
fill out their questionnaire@wealthfront.com forward slash.
Tim,
it's fast free.
There's no downside that I can think of.
This episode is brought to you by Athletic Greens.
I've used athletic Greens for many,
many years and I'm asked all the time,
if you could use only one supplement,
what would it be?
My answer is inevitably athletic Greens.
It is my all in one nutritional insurance,
at least that's how I think about it.
It is much more than Greens.
It's a complete whole food supplement with 75 or so ingredients packed into one
tablespoon per day.
So when I travel,
for instance,
of course I would like to follow all of my regimens,
all of my pills,
all of my supplements,
all of my food to the tee.
But sometimes circumstances intervene and you're too busy or things are too
hectic.
This helps me to mitigate the likelihood of getting sick and to perform
optimally.
So if I go to say South America for an Acro Yoga intensive,
which I did in Columbia,
at one point I was running around like a chicken with its head cut off and I
took this every morning and it is extremely,
extremely helpful and I usually travel with travel packets among other things,
so you just try it out is the short version of this.
As listeners of the Tim Ferriss show,
you can receive $100 worth of travel packs for free when you order.
That's 20 free additional individual travel pouches when you order,
simply go to athleticgreens.com forward slash Tim to check it out.
So take a look athletic greens.com forward slash Tim.
Hello my friend Lee lives in [inaudible].
This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show where
it is typically my job to deconstruct world class performers.
This episode is a little indirect because the questions come from you.
Arnold Schwarzenegger is back for a round two on the podcast.
I could not be more excited in our first conversation,
which is episode 61 of my most popular of all time,
the former Mister Olympia terminator and governate or shared lessons learned
daily routines,
psychological warfare tactics,
which were amazing.
Favorite books,
early entrepreneurial ventures and tips.
For instance,
how I made millions in real estate before he had his movie break meditation and
many stories no one had heard before.
This time around,
the new host of the celebrity apprentice answered your most popular and upvoted
questions including some controversial questions.
He does not shy away from anything and this is no exception.
He does not mince words in this episode.
Among other things,
article talks about his recent Twitter battle with president elect.
Donald Trump is investment strategies,
politics,
the state of bodybuilding,
his sleep schedule,
and many more never before told stories.
He did,
however,
forget to plug his latest project.
So I will do it here.
Tune in to the new celebrity apprentice Mondays at 8:00 PM or watch it on the
NBC APP.
I hope you enjoy this incredible round two with Arnold Schwartzenegger.
Yeah,
I promise that it does not disappointed.
Okay.
The first question comes from Tim Ferris.
He wanted to lead off with a lot,
has been written about the president elect's use of Twitter,
his tweets and move the stock market and define the news of the day.
You were recently on the receiving end of a couple of his tweets.
I think your response set it all.
So I don't want to reopen it,
but I would like to hear about the process.
How did you react when you heard he had tweeted about you and how did you
formulate your mic drop response?
Well,
first of all,
it's just kind of create the atmosphere here.
You're sitting outside here or outside my house.
The fire is on outdoor fireplace.
I'm smoking my stove and we are having a great time.
That Jacuzzi is warming up slowly so that afterwards we can dig a Jacuzzi and so
on.
So that's number one.
Number two,
that's good.
Now,
uh,
answer this very important question.
Tim had a great question.
First of all,
it is important when you want to respond that you don't respond immediately.
Did you don't respond with a,
with your emotion because of course you go through various different stages in
other,
because if I would have responded right away,
I would have said,
don't go into the stinking Candace with a skunk.
But then a cinema said,
well,
maybe there's not the right answer and it really doesn't say anything.
So we waited a little bit.
Then I said to myself,
wow,
you know,
I think actually I expect that,
that tweet,
because I tweeted out,
I did,
I'm not going to vote for him and encouraged other people,
not the boat for him says Emma's of,
you know,
being down with Trump.
And probably I would have done the same thing,
just,
you know,
tweet back.
So that was to be expected.
So now it was just an audio answer back.
And then slowly but surely,
no,
I started developing different answers,
different stages.
And I said to myself at one point,
you know,
maybe I should just go back,
is to just a,
you know,
it his head against the table or something like that.
Then was another that this stupid,
uh,
okay,
let's get out of their way.
And so eventually I came up with something that was,
you know,
uh,
well I talk about,
look,
this is in a lot of energy that he put in there to,
to,
to compete about the ratings and boy,
who has better ratings.
Norris,
I hope that you put the same amount of energy into serving all the people of
America because it's a really important job to be the president and you have to
be able to serve both Democrats and Republicans and declined to stay estate and
independence in everybody.
And so he should put the,
his energy into that.
So that's how I came up with that,
basically.
It's great.
So Jan de weekend,
or maybe Jaan
said,
what was the hardest choice in your life and what was the biggest sacrifice that
you've made while climbing the ladder of success?
I think that there's no two ways about it.
The toughest choice was who kid my bikini wax before Conan the barbarian.
No,
uh,
I think,
Eh,
you know,
definitely the toughest choice was to run for governor because I really felt
very passionate about becoming a public servant.
Yeah.
And it felt really strongly that I could do a better job then the politicians in
Sacramento.
I felt that the politicians screwed up the state.
That's why we had blackouts,
that why we had a huge debt and deficits and,
uh,
no one could get along.
Democrats and Republicans couldn't work together.
And it was just a huge mess here.
And,
uh,
I felt that I could do a better job.
And so,
but at the same time,
I recognize the fact that I just finished terminator and Terminator three came
out and I,
this was,
I became the highest paid actor at that time in the world.
And so that meant that I was not going to be able to make two movies a year and
make this kind of millions and billions of dollars.
So am I willing to go and walk away from all that money,
potentially over $100 million over the next,
you know,
uh,
seven years.
And,
uh,
so,
um,
then there was the family question,
you know,
uh,
my wife was not very enthusiastic about it.
She comes from a family that had politics,
had a tremendous impact on death,
on a family and side effects.
And so she felt like the same would happened to our family.
And so there were all of those debates.
But eventually after long deliberation and thinking about the whole thing,
I did make up my mind and the decided to do it.
But it was a very,
very tough decision to make because I had to think about all of those different
aspects and uh,
but I went for it and if a very passionate and then after I made the decision,
I was 100% behind it and I felt like I had the neat,
the surf the people in to give back,
do great,
great country that gave me everything
Rachel or Rochelle wind holes asked,
what is the most important thing a woman needs to know if she wants to lead both
men and women effectively?
Well,
I think the first thing she needs to do is take out the,
as a woman,
because if you want to be a leader,
you know,
you got to think of yourself as a person,
as a human being.
And now there's a woman was a man,
but just,
you know,
paint a great a vision of where you want to go,
what is your Gore and then did clear vision that you share with everyone,
men and women around you.
We'll follow you because of the enthusiasm and because you have a very clear
vision.
Yeah.
And it will inspire them.
So being inspirational and then having a clear vision,
having a clear goal and rally everyone behind you,
I think is the most important thing.
But don't think of yourself as a woman in this case because I tell you a Indira
Gandhi did not think of herself.
A woman mentioned led India.
I think that Mrs Thatcher,
who was successfully leading England,
did not think of herself as a woman and oh my God,
what would it be like now's a woman to lead the England or something like that.
Mrs Skoda Mayo was one of the most extraordinary leaders of Israel and led to
this great country as through the 67 war against so many different countries,
was highly successful.
Did not think of herself.
I bet you any money as a woman,
uh,
you know,
Chancellor Merkel who was one of the greatest leaders in Germany right now who
has been a long island office,
I think than anyone else.
A very effective leader is a woman.
I don't think she sees herself as a woman.
As a matter of fact,
I remember when I met her several times during the time I was governor in,
no,
she was a tough leader,
really good spot because smartbid history with politics and economics and when
all of the different issues,
but it never even come up the subject though I'm a woman.
And as a woman that did this and that and so on.
Imagine Katherine did great when she led Russia.
I mean,
do you think that she thought of herself as well?
So I,
you know,
I think they that out,
uh,
completely,
the woman stuff and to see yourself as a person and as someone that is a great
leader with a great vision and then rally around behind you.
This reminds me of,
you've talked before about wanting to bring women's bodybuilding into the Arnold
classic.
Is this the same philosophy
that you didn't want them to think of themselves as women?
Well,
it's a,
it's a little different because I think that there is still a tremendous
prejudice towards women and what women should not do.
Yeah.
And,
uh,
I feel that through sports I have learned they'd be all equal and that women
should have the same,
right.
Uh,
to do the same sports as guys.
Two guys should have the same ride to the same sports woman too.
And so I felt like a,
who is to say that bodybuilding is a male a thing did know women can also build
their bodies maybe differently,
but let them decide how they want to do it.
But let women compete in bodybuilding competitions.
So we started with a herald.
Schneider,
I remember,
uh,
back east,
we started a,
in Pennsylvania,
we started the first Miss Olympia competition and then we moved to Columbus and
beer in Columbus,
Ohio.
Uh,
at our competition.
It combined with the Mr Olympia and Mister Universe,
uh,
that they've the Miss Olympia and then it became highly successful and now women
bodybuilding and women fitness and training and that all of this stuff is as
much a part of the international bodybuilding scene.
As for the male
bodybuilders,
Joseph Darell,
rod asked Arnold to have you always slept so sparingly or do you purposely sleep
less to gain extra hours in your day?
What's your current sleep schedule like and how do you keep high energy with
little sleep?
Might make current
sleeping is scheduled is pretty much the same.
It has been for the last few years.
Uh,
but I get up early in the morning and then they go and,
uh,
work out,
ride the bicycle for an hour and,
uh,
take a shower,
have breakfast,
you know,
feed my dog,
play with my dog,
uh,
call my kids,
tell them I love them and uh,
read a script or to read the papers in English and in German also in,
but that time it's around five o'clock in the morning.
Okay.
What's your actual morning routine
before?
The bottom line is,
is that I have slept nine hours a day when it was 19 years old because at that
point,
Mina was younger,
I needed more sleep and I woke up nine hours later and it took me nine hours and
go the full nine hours of sleep.
As time went on,
I needed less and less sleep.
And now it doesn't matter where am I wake up six hours after I go to sleep.
It doesn't mean I'm six hours after they go to bed because there's a lot of
people that have trouble getting to sleep.
And there's another secret that they use and that is,
I don't have my iPhone or my iPad or anything in the bedroom.
I do not an hour before or two hours before getting into some heavy kind of
debates about business and stuff like that or accept phone calls where those
kinds of things can happen because I've seen that then.
Then you go to bed and you mind keeps going and going and going and doesn't
allow you to go to sleep.
So it's important to not do that.
There's other people that are very successful by not even watching TV and it
just read a book or something like that and that puts him to sleep and dead
standup that I watch TV because that does not kind of like bother me when they
watch the news and so on,
or make me think about it for the next hour or so.
So I cannot actually doze off watching TV or reading something.
So the key thing for music stayed asleep until they wake up.
And that is usually six hours,
five and a half hours,
sometimes five hours.
Some of them six and a half hours,
but it's an average of around six hours.
It doesn't matter if I'm flying to Europe on the plane,
that is a 12 hour flight.
Uh,
sometimes I also wake up six hours later if they'd go to sleep and in Europe
with the time change,
I get up six hours later.
So it gives me an advantage.
Of course they have an extra few hours then to do other things and the learn or
the reader to do something.
Uh,
that is fun to do.
But I mean,
I think the people,
the key thing is for people not to get as obsessed about the sleep that you can
carve out extra time,
but to organize your day really well so that you can do a lot of things in the
competition.
A lot of things,
rather than wasting the day,
if that's what you want to do.
You know,
there's people that they'd say,
okay,
I'm retired.
I'm just going to play golf and I don't even pay any attention to being
productive.
I have done this my whole life.
Others want to be productive then.
Yeah,
I would just say,
okay.
He is why they get up.
The early risers usually are the most successful people I have.
If it's the president of the United States,
if it is the pope or older leaders or the business leaders,
everyone always tells me that they get up at five o'clock good,
six o'clock they read the paper,
they get going,
they get organized in us that answering mail,
communicating with Europe and stuff like that.
So I think,
uh,
organizing your day and having a very clear vision and program of what you want
to accomplish and being Susie gastic I think that is the key thing.
Not just to worry about I got down to sleep six hours out of RSM losing too much
time or something like that.
Health wise,
the best thing is to get enough sleep that you need.
Everyone is a little bit different about that.
Perry read ass.
What is something you believe that others might consider?
Totally crazy.
I think the first thing that comes to my mind is,
um,
that you can't predict the environment and protect the economy at the same time.
And we have seen this in California,
how successful we have been.
When I was governor.
Uh,
I was very fortunate to lead a state that had a great history in protecting the
environment,
but also the great history of,
you know,
being an economic powerhouse.
Uh,
we have been consistently anywhere been in the fifth largest economy to the
eighth largest economy in the world.
Now we can the fifth largest economy in the world.
And I think that just shows to you that having a great environmental protection
and laws in place in protecting the environment that you can do that
successfully.
We have made a commitment to reducing greenhouse gases,
but 25% by the year 2020,
we made a commitment to have almost 50% of renewables by the year 2020 we have
made a commitment to make our buildings more green and to have a,
you know,
to do things that really moves us in the direction of keeping our environment
clean.
But at the same time,
we've also proven that our achieve DP for instance,
where the national GDP is a one and a half,
2% of growth,
uh,
we in California had a GDP growth last year for instance,
of 4.2%.
So as you can see that we are doubled as good as the nation is as an average,
and we have the strong,
strongest and the toughest environmental laws at the same time.
So there's a huge misconception that going green means that you destroy the
economy.
And we have,
as a matter of fact,
the green sector in California,
you know,
a producer's 10 times more jobs now than any other sector in California.
So no matter which way you look,
you know,
we have become a leader and we are the fifth largest economy in the world and be
out doing the rest of the states in the United States.
So I hope did the federal government thinks really close notice of what
California is doing?
Patrick Chapman says,
I'm a musician taking auditions and competitions constantly.
I'd love to hear your best tips for preparing mentally for competition.
Well,
I think that it doesn't really matter if you are going to do an audition for
music or for movies or TV or if you're competing on the stage in a bodybuilding
competition or if you're doing a downhill race as a skier or via UFC fighter,
uh,
or if you run a corporation,
it is mileage.
It is a reps that count.
The more often you do something.
I am a big believer in practicing and practicing and practicing.
Why?
Because the more you practice,
the better you get and the more it becomes second nature and then slowly the
fear goes away that you may not be able to remember your lines when you fogo for
an audition or the fear that you may be a sound stupid and dead,
you're not going to pull it off or whatever it is.
It is always the,
the more you practice something,
the more confidence you get and the better you're going to perform when you go
to those auditions in the first place.
So reps,
reps,
and just keep practicing and practicing.
Uh,
we have a saying in German [inaudible] Martin Meister,
which means,
you know,
the more you would practice something,
the more you become the master of something.
And,
and so that,
that's a reality
is that why when you have a new speech,
you're practicing,
you're right.
The tallies on it.
Well that,
that Hal is a ride on it because that's comes from a body building and weight
lifting background because we used to have a jock,
uh,
in our weightlifting gym.
It'd be,
uh,
made,
a line for each rep that we did so that I know an aunt when a look at it,
did a really do all my sets rather than cheating on yourself with the Reps.
So we'd use said,
so with anything,
we even wrote the weight on it next to it and compared it to the last weeks
chart of how much we improved and await notice.
So it is all about always do enough reps.
And of course you'll learn this in sport.
This is why I always say,
you know,
families should insist that the kids to sports,
because in sports we'll learn the lessons.
There is no shortcut,
uh,
and the only way you get confidence is doing reps and getting good at what
you're doing.
And that's what gives you the confidence.
Then you cut down the failures and on and on and on.
So just through the reps,
Marsha Peterson ass in Arnold's experience,
how does age and aging effect Diet and fitness,
what adjustments do you recommend for those of us who are no longer a spring
chicken?
Well,
I think the first thing that comes to my mind is you got to really be very
adamant.
Do use,
uh,
when you get older,
organic gluten free botox.
I mean this is extremely important.
Um,
no,
in all seriousness,
I think that the most important thing really is,
is that you recognize that your metabolism slows down.
And uh,
let's say as a male they don't produce as much testosterone and it's a
definitely you have to dig certain food supplements that a,
that you can supplement than produce what testosterone and that you eat.
Uh,
did you watch,
uh,
the kind of food you eat?
Because what you get away with when you are 19 to 20 years old,
you're not going to get away with.
Now I remember that when I was competing in the Mr Olympia competition and that
was at the height of my party,
Korea.
You know what,
we worked at five hours a day and the body was a much faster metabolism.
We would go even before a competition,
before the Mr Olympia competition to the house of pies and be,
we'd a Pi and uh,
the day I could not get away with that because you would immediately gained
weight those days.
It was before the competition and we still won the competition because your
metabolism is different.
So you have to recognize that you have to go and stay away from bread if to stay
away from desserts,
maybe can have it every so often,
but don't think that is a daily routine.
Beecher's keep eating bread and pasta and a,
your desserts and ice cream and all the kinds of things.
And I'd have to tell you that this is very torturous for me because I am
Austrian and then generally grow up in Austria with beautiful,
wonderful desserts.
I mean,
if [inaudible] toward [inaudible] apple strudel from strudel labor knut a
minute.
There's so many different things that we have that are fattening and they got to
get off all of those things and just really no eat much lighter.
I ate smaller meals now at night.
Many times it just have soup and Nadine anything.
Yeah.
In order to really stay trim,
it is a real battle.
And I think that I'm not the only one that goes through the battle.
I think everyone in the gym and I go to Gold's gym,
it's a,
it,
everyone tells me the same story they'd done as soon as they get to be passed
40,
you know,
uh,
they have a tendency of getting easier,
overweight and fat.
And now of course it's a good time because it's new year.
So you can make a new year's resolution and say,
I want to lose 10 pounds.
So I wanted to lose 20 pounds.
And he is the Diet that I'm going to be on and dense exactly what I would
recommend.
Mike Unix says you have a great history combating climate change and you've
recently taken on trying to get people to eat less meat as animal agriculture as
a major source of greenhouse gas emissions.
What are your future plans to keep spreading this message and reach more people?
Well,
I think that the most upsetting thing to me is that we have so many really
passionate environmentalist.
It really is serious about helping earth be healthy.
Yeah.
And uh,
reducing pollution,
but their communication skills allows you,
uh,
because they always keep talking about climate change.
It doesn't matter what speech did you listen to if it is president Obama's
speech or if it is some senators,
speech chauvinism,
environmentalist speech,
they talk about climate change and it doesn't mean anything due to the mass in
the world that goes right over their head.
And they talk about something that happens in,
in 10 years from now that talk about what happens in 20 years from now and the
sea level's rising in 50 years from now.
And that the,
that the human mind is not equipped to think down the line,
what happens down the line.
They want to know what's happening today,
what's happening right now and what's happening right now is disastrous because
Belushi,
and that's what environmental is,
should be talking about.
Pollution is killing 7 million people a year that is happening right now.
And they never talk about it.
I said that most of what is going on with this guys,
why are they so obsessed about,
uh,
you know,
climate change and not about the amount of people that are dying every year
because of pollution.
I mean,
the amount 7 million that I'm talking about,
that's much more than all the traffic accidents.
That's much more than that.
The wars that kill people,
uh,
oh that isis that we are worried about,
or suicides or homicides.
So all of these things together is not even close to that amount of 7 million
people.
So pollution is the biggest killer.
And they're not talking about it.
They kind of throw it away.
Yeah.
And as the this climate change.
And then it also that health aspect of it that's very,
you know,
people get sick from pollution and order sit.
They mentioned it and as a side Bar,
but not really as like the main thing.
That's what's happening that day.
So the communication has to be better.
I always talk about the four legged stool.
I always talk about that.
Yes,
we should talk about climate change because that is a reality.
We will have time to change and it is disastrous.
But in order to really make people react and become part of the,
uh,
of the environmental crusade,
we should tell them that right now 7 million people die in America.
250,000 people die.
And in,
you know,
in India,
over a million people in China,
over a million people die because of pollution.
And this goes on and on and on,
all over the world.
That's what we should talk about.
So the first leg should be in a climate change.
Second,
they should be that,
that the,
you know,
talking about the pollution.
The third should be that how many jobs we can create with a green economy and
the fourth is national security,
so we should,
this is the four legged stool because we got to get energy independent because
they get off fossil fuels,
so we don't have to ever rely on countries that our enemy and that w don't wish
as well.
So those are the th th there's the four legged stool that I talk about and I
think that is what we need to concentrate on and we just have to kind of let
everyone know that they got to communicate differently,
gather,
communicate in the way that means something to people they understand because
people are basically survivors.
They worry about right now when you have an accident,
you don't go and say this.
They're thinking about when someone breaks their leg and they have an open wound
that or how would we going to fix the leg?
No,
first you stop the bleeding.
That's the first thing that you do.
And then you go and take them to the hospital and then they can worry about how
to fix the leg and orders kind of things.
And the same as with our environmental movement.
We got to talk about the amount of people that die every year because of
pollution.
And just to expand on Mike's question,
this isn't just theoretical for you.
You actually ran the anti prop 23 campaign in California in 2010 with these
principles.
Well,
you're absolutely correct because we found out the total coincidence that this
is what the people really pay attention to the most is the health aspect.
And it is,
you know,
of what tremendous impact,
uh,
pollution has not only on the health of grownups,
but for instance,
in the Central Valley in California,
we talked about,
you know,
how it creates asthma.
Yeah.
Asthma and both kind of effect it has on kids and to health and stuff like this.
And people was so alarmed when they heard that the statistics that they did
everything they could to go and do keep in effect our environmental laws.
Even though the oil and coal companies came into California,
we'd proposition 23.
Yeah.
And tried to have the people vote against our environmental laws and they were
not successful.
We beat them with 80% of the votes and chased him out of the state because we
use the health aspect as a means to really get through independent.
It's through to the people and let them know how important it is that we keep
our environmental laws,
which are the best in the nation
and our environmental laws,
one and conservative districts as well as liberal districts with that.
Right.
That's right.
Because it,
it,
Republicans and Democrats alike all want to go and have healthy,
uh,
and have healthy water,
clean water,
and the clean ground,
I mean,
air,
water pollution and the,
the,
the ground pollution did we have,
is disastrous and biggest to always fight in order to clean our environment.
Cody Szuchman says,
Arnold,
we hear about your many successes in life.
What do you consider your greatest failure and how did is set up or shape your
future successes?
Well,
I think that,
uh,
you have to recognize that it doesn't matter who it is,
the most successful person in the world.
I can tell you honestly,
that they also had a tremendous amount of failures.
Uh,
it's not always just success.
The key thing is,
is that we learn from the failures actually more than from our successes.
And,
uh,
it doesn't matter if you talk about the best,
you know,
basketball player.
I had a member Magley Jordan want them,
said,
uh,
in an interview that he missed 9,000 shots.
Uh,
you know,
and he was one of the grid,
the greatest,
if not the greatest basketball player in the world.
So yes,
you miss not a,
remember that the,
you know,
Ted Williams,
uh,
one of the greatest baseball players,
remember 19,
think it was 1941 or so when the,
he had the best of baseball season and the average of four oh six,
a 406.
And uh,
and that meant that 40% plus 40.6% to be exact,
uh,
he was successful with his hits.
There is batting and a 60% therefore we're failures.
So think about it.
This is the greatest baseball player that is record still stands today.
So it just shows you the,
everyone has failures and everyone and enter.
The key thing is is did you learn from this field?
And they move on.
I had my failures in bodybuilding.
I lost bodybuilding competitions.
Most people only know my victories,
which were a lot.
But I've also lost,
I lost in weightlifting,
I lost him.
Power lifting.
I embarrass myself many times trying to lift the 500 pounds on the bench press
in front of 2000 people in a beer hall in Germany.
And I failed and it crashed on my chest.
They couldn't make it.
But eventually it did make it.
And uh,
I lost,
you know,
I had failures in the movie business.
I remember I had thought of movies,
the events through the roof.
But then there were movies that went right in the toilet that were not as
successful books did.
They came out with that one,
a New York Times bestseller list,
and then others that didn't live up to the expectations.
And,
and failed.
So yes,
we have those kinds of things in.
To me,
the key thing is always,
uh,
and you know,
they will learn from it.
I have failed as Jose,
I remember in my personal life and I learned from that,
you know,
and then you move on again.
What is important is that you get up,
when you fall,
the winner always gets up and the loser stays down.
That's was it.
What's the difference of the me?
The important thing is always that when you've renewed,
when you fail on something you does,
does,
you get up,
you dust yourself off and you move on and have again,
a great vision of which direction you want to go.
Pick another goal and keep moving forward.
Philip Charles asks,
what tips did you receive at an older age that you could have used in your 20s
or does a lot of things that we learned throughout the years,
obviously,
but I think the main thing that that comes to my mind is charity.
You know that when you're young you don't think about that.
You should reach out and you should help others.
So,
you know,
like I was only thinking about my goal to be on that stage at,
in London at the Mister Universe competition and just like reg park,
my idol that once re mister universe competitions and then became Hercules in
the movies.
Not that I wanted to have that trophy on that same stage as he wanted.
And that was the only thing that in my mind.
And then after I won that it was winning Mister Olympian,
Mr World and all the competition become the greatest body builder.
That's all I had in my mind.
There was total tunnel vision and uh,
but then later on I learned luckily that how important it is to also not only
think about me but to think about we and to go and to help others that a lot of
people that need help,
if it is help people that need help in their training and to go around and help
people hold seminars and teach them about training and about the importance of
exercising the right way.
If it is that a,
the make sure that everyone can do sports.
Like I got involved in Special Olympics instead of helping Special Olympians to
do sports and specifically to do weight training and power lifting.
And that introduced a ended those Special Olympics movement,
a power lifting competitions,
which are now worldwide and they're very,
very successful.
We started Special Olympics specific in Austria,
also in God oldest ski races together to start in to help me and support me and
just started special Olympics Stenberg together with the private sector and the
government Norris.
And then eventually,
you know,
as starting afterschool programs and then becoming the chairman of the
President's Council on physical fitness and travel around the countries are all
50 states and promote health and fitness and bring everyone together and then
eventually led to a running for governor.
As so I think giving back and recognizing that every one of us needs help.
I got plenty of help to be where I am the day.
There's no such thing as a self made man,
as I always say,
you know,
there's people that help me to be where I am today.
So it is up to me now to inspire other people to help them.
And to go and reach out and to help them.
This is what made me be get involved in the environmental movement and in this
environmental crusade and that just love giving back where you don't think about
what is in it for me,
but you know,
how can I help this great nation of America that gave me all the chances in the
world and it opened up so many doors of opportunities,
I would not have accomplished any of the things if it wouldn't have come to
America.
And you know,
so to give something back to me is extremely important and I want to have kids
learn this as early as possible.
That part of being successful is to give also something back.
You talked about tunnel vision,
Louis Louis or Louis Congdon says,
have you ever found that your pursuit of success has made you blind to other
parts of your life?
I don't know if you will call it blind,
but I would say that yes,
when you are trying to be successful,
you have to have tunnel vision and you got to have blinders on and not the CNN
seeing that is on the left and the right side and just really focus and what
they call and golf and in tennis,
in the oldest ball sports,
keep your eye on the ball.
And when you do that many focused as much on on something,
then of course you are not being able to enjoy all of the things that life has
to offer because you're so focused on this.
One thing.
I remembered that when I started with bodybuilding weightlifting,
one of the first things they told us was,
because I come from a country where you do skiing and skiing is very popular.
Don't go skiing.
You know,
you can't go skiing because you're going to break a leg eventually and that will
set you back and you're not going to go and be able to weight lift into the
bodybuilding at Aza.
So don't go skiing.
Don't go.
I escape.
So you always kind of,
uh,
you know,
have to turn down certain things and,
and,
and uh,
you,
you see there but you,
uh,
you have to focus on the thing that you really want to be the best.
And that's what I did.
And,
uh,
you know,
I don't regret that at all because you cannot be good in everything and you
cannot do everything.
And at the same time be a champion in one thing.
There is no such thing.
So I decided I wanted to be a champion.
I decided that I wanted to go all out in my various different careers.
If it is embodied building,
if it is in acting,
uh,
I remember that in,
in,
in acting.
If it was a perfect example,
whenever you sign on to a movie,
let's say the terminator or command or Predator or whatever it is,
you had to sign for the insurance and the bonding company you designed that you
are not going to do while you're doing the movie to any motorcycle riding,
any skiing,
no horseback riding,
Lobero shooting,
no scuba diving and all of those things because those things are dangerous and
they don't want you to get into those dangers while you're shooting a movie
because you know when you get injured then the hold up and the whole production
costs millions and millions of dollars.
So that just shows you you have to make sacrifices.
Yes,
you can be the terminator as he can be the command.
he can be the last action hero in noticing,
but you cannot do those kinds of things while you're doing the movie.
So you always have to make sacrifices.
That's just the bottom line of it.
So this is why you believe in having a specific goal so that you have an end
point when then you can say,
okay,
the movie's finished.
Now I can go skiing.
I started skiing with the age of 30 after I was finished with competition and
then I was not allowed the skis.
Like I said,
during the times when it was doing a movie,
which I totally understood.
Uh,
it was hard to do because I'm,
I'm very,
uh,
much into skiing.
I love skiing because I missed out on it when I was young and now I love doing
it or motorcycle riding,
you know,
all of a sudden that cannot ride a motorcycle for the three months while I'm
doing a movie.
And so,
so you have to,
you have to make sacrifices and you know,
uh,
but that's the difference between being a kid and being a grown up as a kid.
You always want to have everything so grown up,
you have to make choices.
And,
uh,
I made the right choice and I'm happy that they made the choice.
And May I remind you because you just mentioned something about you got to shoot
for you.
Call now that everyone is as driven as I am.
I want to make this perfectly clear.
I was always a very driven person.
I grew up to a driven,
I think it's because it came from a little country.
It was after the Second World War.
There was poverty and starvation and there was not much around and grew up poor
and all this stuff.
So it creates a whole different fire in the belly and the will to succeed in
order stuff.
And I just had that.
But that was my thing.
I was in the dad.
Not everyone is as driven and then you don't have to be the driven.
Uh,
the people did a very happy with a normal job to have a wonderful family and it
just relax into live a moderate to good life.
And that's what makes them happy.
The key thing is,
is to recognize there's many roads to as being successful and many roads to be
happy.
And the ultimate goal that people always should shoot for is that they're
satisfied and that they're happy.
And that can come many different ways.
Michael Denari says he's seen that Warren Buffet will be one of your advisors
and an upcoming episode of the apprentice.
How did you get to know Warren Buffett?
Warren Buffett has become a friend of mine.
Uh,
I would say for decades now.
We used to travel around and end up,
uh,
at the same places and,
you know,
he asked me several times to come with him and he does his business
presentations and stuff like that and uh,
he and I hit it off really well.
Then he bought Netjet,
uh,
because I flew around a lot with the,
with the different jets,
uh,
for the movie promotions in order.
It's kind of stuff.
So we really got to like each other and I of course had the highest respect for
him because here's a guy that is so rich and it makes so much money and is so
successful with so many companies,
but he's not really in the money.
That is the wildest thing.
I mean,
he,
they,
he stayed in normal hotel room since he drives around when you go to Omaha with
a regular car that has been driving around with for the last 30 years and you
know,
and,
and he,
and he just isn't into it so that it's really funded for him.
It's just kind of like,
you know,
being like the greatest athlete or being like,
uh,
in a,
an astronaut or whatever that happens to be his bag.
And he's very,
very talented to make $1 into two.
And he's a wonderful human being,
the most giving human being as you know,
that he,
in his world,
he's going to give away all of his money afterwards so it gives a little bit to
the kids and then the rest of it,
it gives away for charity and all this kind of stuff.
So to me that is a extraordinary human being.
And so he was also one of the first ones when I ran for governor to,
he's a democrat.
I'm a Republican,
but he stood by my side because he knew where my heart was,
that I was interested in serving all the people not to be an ideology and it is
ideology and get,
you know,
caught up in this ideological corners of or so on that uh,
he was there.
He endorsed me and he was standing on my left.
I remember the press conference and George Shultz,
Secretary George Shultz
stood on my right side.
Yeah.
In both of them.
Endorsement that gave kind of the message did I wanted to serve all people of
California Democrats and Republicans and everybody.
Yeah.
And so,
uh,
so he was also supportive an eye.
MMM.
You know,
ask him,
I said,
I'm doing the celebrity apprentice,
can it be one of my advisors?
He immediately said,
I don't want anything.
You want anything.
You need any of my products that do promote or the setup a certain kind of a
task.
Uh,
which then we ended up doing.
So he's just a wonderful human being.
And a great,
great friend.
Damn Orle says the current state of modern bodybuilding versus Arnold's time.
What is your personal opinion on modern bodybuilding and your thoughts on
steroid use?
If it's ever appropriate.
If steroids,
a performance enhancing drug,
then I think Congress read now should take it immediately.
So that's number one.
Number two,
I think when you talk about bodybuilding,
it's always important that we think about,
is it the competitive world of bodybuilding or are we talking about in general
body building,
which means building the body through weight resistance.
Let's talk first about the,
the,
the one for the ordinary people that are not interested in competing.
I think that,
uh,
the sport and the activity of bodybuilding has exploded in the last 40 years.
I remembered that when I started out.
People had a very negative attitude about bodybuilding and they thought that you
will get muscle pound.
Uh,
they thought that you would turn gay and did,
you will be stupid.
And uh,
you,
uh,
it will become a narcissist hanging out in front of the mirror all the time and
all of those kinds of things.
And did it,
is paid for your health.
And doctors were wanting down to this,
coaches were wanting for athletes not to pick up any weights that you will get
muscle bound and it will,
you know,
reduce your performance and you get stiff and all of this stuff.
So that all has changed.
Now you go 40 years forward
and in his 40 years we have seen now that a weight resistance training is a
totally accept that.
And uh,
it's one of the number one activities in the world I'm in.
Even now in hospitals,
we're doctor said this is the worst thing for your health.
Now when you have hospitals that have rehab rooms and facilities with vape
machines,
resistance machines and dumbbells and barbells and plates and pulleys and all
kinds of things because they know this is the best way to recover and a,
um,
to come back as quick as possible after injury or after surgery and so on.
And uh,
the same thing is in athletics.
There is not one single athlete that doesn't work out with weights.
If it is boxes,
UFC fighters,
if it is in a power as if it the scarf,
as if his tennis players,
football players,
every football team has a huge list way.
Drums,
every basketball
team of weight rooms,
every university has weight facilities.
Every high school is wade facilities.
Um,
every military base.
Did you go?
They've,
I mean,
I travel around and visit the military bases around the world.
They have hundreds of different bench press benches and a in a squat racks and
to end heavyweights in machines in every sings of people.
So there's men and women can train day and night in the gymnasium and get ready
for those battles.
The weather's very risky kind of things.
Did they do,
uh,
the,
the very,
very dangerous.
So they want to,
everyone wants to be in shape and they know that the ultimate shape you get when
you're also include weight training in your,
in your daily training.
So a,
it is fantastic.
We have seen the changes every hotel now when you travel around the world has
all the weight also weighed facilities.
And when it comes to the competitive sport of bodybuilding,
I have to say that there were huge progress.
There was huge progress made.
Uh,
when I was competing,
it was like 30 countries that had regular annual bodybuilding competitions.
Now there's 192 countries that hold and,
or bodybuilding competitions in the national competitions and orders.
So that has grown.
Also the,
uh,
the only thing that that bothers me is the way we developed in professional body
building.
The idea of body now has changed so much.
The guys that are winning the day,
I'm not looking anymore the way it,
the ideal body was where people really admired and said,
I want to look like this.
Now they,
there's the Uif guys did a five,
10 door at all and that weighs 300 pounds.
They look more kind of like muscular power lifters and stage a lot of times than
body builders or people that have really an attractive v shape,
beautiful body.
So we got away from that.
And of course,
this is my opinion.
Now there's others that feel differently about that.
And,
uh,
but this is a debate that we've been having now for the last 10 years in body
building.
How do we bring it back again and really idolize and make the winners look more
attractive where they don't have to speak barely sticking out when they don't
have this kind of block you kind of physics.
But to have a more athletic in the more kind of a thin waist wide shoulders and
to have the biceps be the same measurement as the calves and us,
the neck,
just the way it used to be.
Uh,
people in the old days when they saw a picture of Steve Reeves,
they said,
I want to look like that.
Or if this a picture of John Grim Muck,
who warned Mr Universe in 1948,
I think it was a,
he was a fantastic poser.
He was a,
he did acrobatics handstand Norris.
He was also extraordinary weightlifter.
He could to muscle control people wanted to be John [inaudible].
So that is really the ideal thing.
And I think that eventually we have to get back to that again.
Um,
now,
of course,
the bodies have developed,
the techniques have developed food supplements.
If devout machines have developed to the bar is,
are bigger and better than they were then,
but that does not mean that we have to have a,
you know,
people look like monsters under stage.
I think they should have a much more appealing party.
And that's why I think in bodybuilding we have now created other categories,
uh,
which is,
you know,
Mr Fitness and uh,
Mr uh,
natural and Mister [inaudible] and mister that to get away from this kind of
block,
you look,
uh,
but bodybuilding is,
is,
you know,
is booming and a lot of more people than ever are doing it.
Amman Budrow and says,
how do you think about risk?
How would you train?
Have you trained yourself to take better rests and increase your risk appetite?
Well,
I think that,
uh,
the risks shouldn't be the goal.
How do you take more risk?
The goal should be that you envision your goal,
that you set a really high goal.
And the only way you can set a high goal is if you are not afraid of failure.
You have to take risks.
I mean,
the bottom line is,
is that,
uh,
I mean when I think the amount of risks that I took to be where I am the day,
and he was very risky to say that I'm wanting to be the bodybuilding champion of
the world in a country where skiing was really the national sport of bicycling
and stuff like that.
But you are not bodybuilding,
uh,
or weightlifting.
And,
uh,
so the risk also for me to have go to come to America,
it was a risk to go and say,
uh,
you know,
that I'm going to get into the movie business,
but let's just to get into the movie business,
but to become a leading man,
uh,
or the run for governor of this,
I was able to just go and say,
you know,
no matter what it takes and uh,
yes,
I may fail,
but I'm going to go and take that risk and go for it.
And,
uh,
and,
and you know,
when you are,
the more risks that you take,
the higher the reward is an end.
I mean just look at in the financial world,
I mean if you make an investment that is a,
has no risk at all,
and they do invest in bonds as I mean like that,
there was very little return or we put your money in a bank.
If you're lucky,
you get 2% interest.
But if you take an investment that is risky,
then of course the,
the,
the risk could be that it fails,
but the upside is much,
much greater.
So I am always the type of a person that is willing to take risks.
And I think the key thing to success is not to be afraid of failure.
As I said earlier,
that if you fail,
what's the worst that can happen?
That you go and you get up and you do it again.
And he tried again and it try it again.
Uh,
there is no one that stops it.
It's with the franchise,
the winners from the losers.
I said earlier in the people that get up at the ones that are the winners.
And so don't be afraid of taking risks.
Don't be afraid of failing because that would just make you freeze up and you
never gonna accomplish anything.
So be free and just relax and just go and say that this is what life is all
about us about is taking risks and go into set big because,
and go for it.
End of story.
Do you think a lot of your risk appetite came from things you learned in the
gym?
What was it that they had a risk appetite.
It was just that the learned from sports that you got to be able to take risk
and you got to be in,
it should not be afraid of failing.
Uh,
when you go to the,
when you're a lifter and you have in front of you,
let's say it's 315 pounds,
I remember I was,
this young kid were lifting weights and then you put on weight after the second
lift for the third lift.
You always put on a way that you've never lifted before.
So automatically you know that there's a 50 50 chance or whatever it is,
the percentage that you're going to fail.
But,
and it is in front of people.
Uh,
so they're in sports.
There's no embarrassment there that when you fail,
it's understood that you'd like,
as I said about the,
the baseball player,
but Ted Williams,
it is you,
you,
you will not be able to do always.
Everything's successful.
So they actors of,
I took the risk to lift the weight that have never lifted and to give you the
shot that you have.
Can I have to approach to wait with a positive attitude and think about I am
going to do it,
but there's still a chance that you're not doing it.
But that does not make me stop and not put that way down because it's the only
way you're going to go and grow and get better and know really an aid,
how much you can accomplish,
how much you can lift and so on.
And this why it's a lesson that you learn in sports and it's a lesson that is
good for the rest of your life and everything you do.
If it is movies,
if it is business,
if it's investments,
if it is in politics,
you got to take risks at dts.
Sinhala says,
how do you stay motivated to keep working on your goals and how do you not run
out of juice or again,
it goes back to the vision.
I think that the,
if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go,
you always will be motivated because I remembered that when I got an,
from when I decided that I'm going to retire from bodybuilding competition and
I'm going to get into acting.
I mean it was such a great vision.
Men,
a thought about Clint Eastwood and the and another Clint Eastwood.
I want to be like another Charles Branson.
This were my idols.
I want to be like Warren Beatty.
I want to be like those guys that are making $1 million.
That was in the 70s now they made $1 million and moving in the same as if.
Wow.
Can you imagine of working your way after that?
So to meet that vision was just so wonderful that I did everything that I could
to get there.
And I was like working on,
you know,
uh,
my English,
I was working on my speech and a annunciation.
Uh,
I was taking acting classes,
I was doing everything that it could,
improv classes and all this stuff.
And I really work my way
by hard work,
work my way up and slowly became,
uh,
know one of the top leading man.
And so that is,
I think beat everything like that.
It's,
it's,
it's you get motivated by your vision.
I remember,
you know,
just with the environment we talked about earlier,
I really envisioned a world that eventually will be clean and we will get rid of
fossil fuels.
And so to me,
that vision motivates me to go out and do speak about the environment,
to travel around the world and to speak about environment,
to use my,
uh,
USC Schwarzenegger Institute and to go and promote a clean environment and all
of those things.
So it's,
it's kind of the vision that motivates you.
So I don't run out of choose because of that because you know,
that has nothing to do with age at all.
It's the always big new goals and it didn't go after those goals and that's what
motivates you and that's what makes it exciting.
That's what makes you passionate about it.
Christian Gray says,
what specific things did you look for in your real estate investments of the
turn?
$1 into two.
There was a number one goal and the number two goal was,
is that it has to be interesting.
I didn't like to invest,
just enroll lantern to sit on it and to sell it five years later for profit.
To me that was not exciting.
What was exciting was is to buy raw land and then the trough plants and to go
and build an apartment building or to build an office building or build a
shopping mall,
uh,
and,
and to find the right partners that you bring together.
And the go all outfitted.
And I remember that,
uh,
you know,
my first,
uh,
investment,
it was back in 1974 I saved up $27,000 from doing seminars in the exhibitions,
in all kinds of things,
and a mail order business at it.
Bricklaying jobs and dollar after dollar I saved up until I had $27,000.
And I have to say that to people understand,
embody building,
even though in 1974,
I was already a multi them Mr Olympia and Mister Universe five times in the
midst of world and all those things.
But in Party building,
there was no money at this point.
So I had to do it,
uh,
the,
the old fashioned way I had to kind of earn it at to go to work and to do it.
And I saved up $27,000,
found an apartment building a six unit apartment building in Santa Monica north
of Wilshire Boulevard,
which was very important to be north of worship,
all of it,
good area.
And uh,
I bought it for $215,000 and they needed $37,000 down.
So I went to Joe Weeder demanded was then the king of the bodybuilding empire
and propaganda America.
And he gave me $10,000 and it was kind of the third deed and his thing.
And I paid him back within a year.
Uh,
but they had the $37,000 together,
bought the apartment building and then two and a half years later we sold it for
$365,000.
And so imagine the profit from two 15 to three 65 in two and a half years and
only bootleg 37 down.
So,
so huge,
huge profit.
And I remembered that are found in a 12 unit apartment building.
And we then sold the,
the,
the six unit one,
then roll the money over,
bought the 12 unit one and then the next one was a 36 unit and they got bigger
and bigger.
And then I had apartments all over the place instead of the,
you know,
building office buildings and shopping malls and stuff like that.
So it really,
to me,
the key thing is,
is that it's fun that is challenging that you go and map it out.
Did you find out when you get into an area and the Pi or property that,
what kind of,
uh,
apartments to the need?
What kind of sizes and it's mean it's a two years in this area or just one unit.
And what kind of shops do you want to have downstairs in your office building?
What kind of a look?
Who Do you want to attract?
So the meat,
that whole thing was really a lot of fun
just so we're 100% clear.
Did you buy the six unit apartment building before you'd ever bought a house?
Do me,
it is much more important when you buy your first real estate to buy a rental
apartment.
A does is an income property.
Uh,
because I had the front unit it,
his apartment building,
which they called the owner's unit.
It was 2,400 square feet,
which was plenty for me at that time upstairs,
downstairs.
And there was five units in the bag and it was a great,
great investment,
right?
But I would not go and buy a house first before I buy an income property.
So the meat,
that was the important thing.
That's what I always recommend to people to buy first income property and to go
and make it a good investment.
And once they should realize when it comes to real estate,
if you invest wisely and if it is in the good area and stuff like that,
and it's a growing area,
uh,
it's never caught spending money.
There's a difference between spending money and investing money in real estate.
You invest because the money it goes up,
the value goes up in most cases.
And uh,
when you buy furniture that spending money,
because as soon as you take the furniture out of the front of your shop,
you lose the magic dramatically right off the top 30% in.
So that spending money,
you will never get that money back.
So you were talking earlier about the raw land,
about your worst investment,
what the supersonic airport that never happened.
Do you want to explain that one?
Where does what I said,
Roland,
uh,
is not really a,
you know,
a fun thing to do to invest in.
I invested in my first investment when they came to America was enrolled land,
but I invested in that because it was in Palmdale,
Lancaster area.
And there,
there was a very well known,
everyone wrote about it,
uh,
that they're going to build a supersonic airport and that the day was the future
to move away from the Los Angeles airport and to,
to move in in the end,
create a new giant airport for supersonic planes.
And uh,
then they outlawed supersonic planes and they are put,
there was never built.
And so now I still own the property,
but even this $5,000 property that apart then now is worth $680,000.
So I cannot call this our laws.
This is something that my kids will inherit in.
We'll have a good time and can sell it.
And if some money still,
it's still right now in the mean that they've put streets in there and the
electricity and uh,
and,
and you know,
eventually the day area will be build up,
but it's not definitely not going to be a supersonic airport.
Jerry Potter says,
if you are allowed to make one la remove one law or amend one law in this
country,
which law would you choose and why?
Well,
first of all,
let me just say the abacus law is,
I think what this question is,
is,
is referring to is would I like to change the law so that there are foreign born
can also run for president?
Yes,
of course there would create that law.
But besides that,
that's an obvious one.
It's a,
it's a no brainer,
but it mean,
uh,
the,
the other law I think will be really interesting in that is if the legislature
ends the lawmakers in Washington to not perform and really down south to kind of
critical problems.
If it's immigration reform,
if it is a environmental,
uh,
in activities where we really shoot four in a 40 or 50% of renewable energy and
reduce our greenhouse gases,
best certain percentage,
uh,
in,
in the next 10 years or so.
Uh,
if we don't accomplish those things and build the infrastructure and all dead,
they all should be voted out of office.
I think we should start all over again because I think how long can America hang
there with no action?
How many decades now have we talked about?
Did we need to build our infrastructure?
There'd be,
have now so many more cars and a route.
Therefore we need to build more highways and freeways and we need to build high
speed rail all over the country.
Uh,
we need to build out our airports.
So they'd been,
you arrived as here,
but they don't look,
some of them like third world country airports and stuff like that.
We need to build more dames and with water storage,
I mean,
they,
in California for instance,
I mean,
uh,
it's,
it is a dreadful when to talk about the trout when I've been in fact really,
it just means that we have not built the infrastructure to capture the water
when it rains and then have it windows or drought and stuff like that.
So I think the legislators,
the lawmakers have to perform for the people.
That's why they're there.
It costs us in a two and a half billion dollars,
uh,
to do,
to have them there on capitol and a,
so they got to perform and they got to recognize the fact that not one party can
solve the problem.
Did you,
the way it is designed is that Democrats and Republicans must work together that
no law,
okay.
Can,
you know,
sustain for a long period of time if he's just dump at one party or the other,
both of the parties in receipt.
Now with Obamacare,
I mean where they was only done by Democrats and now it's going to get undone,
uh,
or you know,
executive orders,
uh,
that are just going to be thrown out,
but the next president always.
So that is not really a solution.
The solution is if Democrats and Republicans worked together,
even though this is very difficult to do,
but that's why they are going to Washington to take on this very difficult task.
And,
uh,
look,
I had to work together.
Remember,
California was an overwhelming amount of democratic legislators in,
I had to work with them.
I was surrounded by a democratic lieutenant governor,
a democratic,
uh,
treasurer,
a controller.
Uh,
you know,
the head of education.
Everyone was the attorney general.
Every one was a Democrat in,
somehow I made it work so that get at least 50% of all those things did they
wanted to do,
I got done and then some things we failed.
But I mean,
the bottom line is,
is they must work for the people and it got to get the act together.
Otherwise there should be a law that they will get voted out of office.
So they have to show the accomplishments or they all go,
oh,
they'll go home.
Yeah.
And now someone will say,
well that's why we have elections every four years and that's why we have
elections for Congress every two years.
And that's when it is.
But that's not the way it works because they all go home is as well.
I did really well,
but the others,
you know,
but it's inexcusable that Congress is like a 14 or 15% approval rating.
I mean that's worse than the approval rating of Fidel Castro of aids or
something like that.
I mean,
what the hell are we talking about here?
Says let's,
let's get our act together.
The potential is the,
they have some smart people in Washington,
Democrats and Republicans alike.
They should work together and do something that is really good for the country.
And you're talking about getting them to actually work together.
It sounds like maybe we need a lot of that.
They have to schmooze together like you did an a cigar time.
Well remember that the,
we cannot do things just all the way on the riot or auto on the left.
Uh,
I believe of what Eisenhower said.
President Eisenhower said,
uh,
you know,
always that,
uh,
politics is like the road,
you know,
the left and the right.
It's the gutter and the center is drivable and that's exactly the way it's in
politics.
He says,
did you get to be in a,
sandy cannot be an extremist to the left to the right
David Paul,
it says,
how did you drum up business when you own that construction company with Franco
Columbo?
Well,
the important thing was,
okay,
dead Franco Columbo was my training partner for the last 50 years and a very,
very dear friend and he was a bricklayer.
And so it because in bodybuilding we didn't make any money.
So we decided that we're going to go and start a little,
little small bricklaying business where we go to people's homes and we fix up
things to the broken.
We were very fortunate because we started the business and got our license
license and when did the IRS and told them about the company.
And does it attacks us,
they'd be going to have to pay in order kind of thing and organized orders.
And then we went out and started working and we started getting jobs into the
build walls and Patios and fireplaces,
not as a,
and then all of a sudden the earthquake happened in 1971 and it was a massive
earthquake that just wiped of a lot of things.
And uh,
so we got from one day to the next leg,
hundreds of phone calls that come into give estimates ant to go into rebuild,
uh,
the patios and the walls and fireplaces and chimneys and all kinds of things.
So we literally had to hire other people from the gym,
bodybuilders from the gym.
And all of a sudden we had this whole workforce and we started going to work and
we made great money.
I'm in not great,
great money,
but I mean good money for fun for those days.
And we could save some money and uh,
by our protein powders and we're able to eat,
you know,
great into the stake center and half hour bro Protein shakes in eggs,
in the best foods in order to stuff they'd be needed.
And uh,
so I,
uh,
you know,
we had a very successful business and he was the greatest thing that the most
fun doing those kind of things.
And we just put a little ad in the La Times.
I member in that ad produced in no really great,
great action for us.
The Ad,
just basic,
you said a European brick layers and masonry workers and stone experts,
you know,
because people be realized very quickly that the American people loved.
When you get,
you know,
kind of work,
uh,
from other countries and they love to mention Swedish massage if you will give
American massage debrand and sell as well as when you say Swedish massage or
Japanese massage or Europe in brick layer or a German car,
uh,
you know,
mechanic or something like that would be,
I remember when I came over here and the,
someone said to me is bringing car down there to Lincoln Boulevard.
There is a,
there's a little garage,
there's a German mechanic.
I mean dead guy is so good.
He'll be in a,
I went down and got my car down there.
He was any better than American
mechanic,
but I mean people just love the European or some other forum kind of a country
and a,
so we use that European bricklayer and stonework.
And there you have been,
uh,
you know,
experts in order to kind of a language used and it worked.
That's good.
Branding,
chip Franks.
And this is our last question.
Says,
could you take Tim Ferriss in a one on one fight right now?
If so,
how long would it take?
Well,
first of all,
easy use Tim Ferriss,
even though he does his Jujitsu and stuff like that and he's in fantastic shape,
but I'm a machine,
let's not forget that.
And plus let's also not forget he cannot hit me because it will be elderly
abuse.
So therefore I would just grab him and I would just put the,
finish him off with a five minutes kind of a routine.
And then an angel say the Lavista baby.
Do you have any closing advice for his listeners?
Uh,
first of all,
I think that is one of the best,
uh,
podcasts.
Uh,
because it,
they're always interesting.
They always exciting.
Uh,
every time he listened to his a podcast,
you'll learn.
And I think that's what it's all about.
We got to always learn and,
and,
and listen to interesting material because I think this is always the challenge
and he being that he's such a hungry guy that always also wants to learn.
Uh,
he is so motivated to go into,
uh,
put out information and like his latest book.
You know,
what,
what makes you success for,
what are the kind of a little tricks that successful people use in orders of.
So he's always educating everybody and that's what I like about it.
Hey guys,
this is Tim again.
Just a few more things before you take off.
Number one,
this is five bullet Friday.
Do you want to get a short email from me?
Would you enjoy getting a short email from me every Friday that provides a
little more soul of fun before the weekend and five bullet Friday is a very
short email where I share the coolest things I've found or that I've been
pondering over the week.
That could include favorite new albums that I've discovered.
It could include Gizmos and gadgets and all sorts of weird shit that I've
somehow dug up in the,
uh,
the world of the esoteric as I do.
It could include a favorite articles that I've read and that I've shared with my
close friends,
for instance.
And it's very short.
It's just a little tiny bite of goodness before you head off for the weekend,
so if you want to receive that,
check it out.
Just go to a four hour work week.com that's four hour workweek.com all spelled
out and just drop in your email and you'll get the very next one and if you sign
up,
I hope you enjoy it.
This episode is brought to you by Athletic Greens.
I've used athletic Greens for many,
many years and I'm asked all the time,
if you could use only one supplement,
what would it be?
My answer is inevitably athletic Greens.
It is my all in one nutritional insurance,
at least that's how I think about it.
It is much more than Greens.
It's a complete whole food supplement with 75 or so ingredients packed into one
tablespoon per day.
So when I travel,
for instance,
of course I would like to follow all of my regimens,
all of my pills,
all of my cell phone's off my food to the tee,
but sometimes circumstances intervened and you're too busy or things are too
hectic.
This helps me to mitigate the likelihood of getting sick and to perform
optimally.
So if I go to say South America for an Acro Yoga intensive,
which I did in Columbia,
at one point I was running around like a chicken with its head cut off,
and I took this every morning and it is extremely helpful and I usually travel
with a travel packets among other things.
So you should try it out is the short version of this.
As listeners of the Tim Ferriss show,
you can receive $100 worth of travel packs for free when you order.
That's 20 free additional individual travel pouches when you ordered.
Simply go to athleticgreens.com forward slash Tim to check it out.
So take a look athleticgreens.com forward slash Tim this episode is brought to
you by Wealthfront and this is a very unique sponsor.
Wealthfront is a massively disruptive in a good way.
Set it and forget it.
Investing service led by technologists from places like apple and world famous
investors.
It has exploded in popularity in the last two years and they now have more than
two and a half billion dollars under management.
In fact,
some of my very good friends,
investors in silicon valley have millions of their own money in Wealthfront,
so the question is why?
Why is it so popular?
Why is it unique?
Because you can get services previously reserved for the ultra wealthy but only
pay pennies on the dollar for them,
and this is because they use smarter software instead of retail locations,
bloated sales teams,
et Cetera,
and I'll come back to that in a second.
I suggest you check out wealthfront.com forward slash Tim take the risk
assessment quiz,
which only takes two to five minutes and they'll show you for free exactly the
portfolio they'd put you in.
And if you just want to take their advice,
run with it,
do it yourself.
You can do that or as I would,
you can set it and forget it.
Here's why.
The value of Wealthfront is in the automation of habits and strategies that
investors should be using on a regular basis but normally aren't.
Great investing is a marathon,
not a sprint,
and little things that you may or may not be familiar with like automatic tax
loss harvesting,
rebalancing your portfolio,
cross more than 10 asset classes and dividend reinvestment add up to very large
amounts of money over longer periods of time.
Wealthfront,
as I mentioned,
since it's using software instead of retail locations,
etc. Can offer all of this at low costs that were previously completely
impossible right off the bat,
you never pay commissions or account fees for everything.
They charge 0.25% per year on assets above the first 15,000 which is managed for
free.
If you use my link,
wealthfront.com forward slash Tim that is less than $5 a month to invest a
$30,000 account for instance.
Now,
normally when I have a sponsor on this show,
it's because I use them and recommend them.
In this case,
it's a little different.
I don't use Wealthfront yet because I'm not allowed to.
Here's the deal.
They wanted to sponsor this podcast,
but because of sec regulations,
companies that invest your money are not allowed to use client testimonials.
So I couldn't be a user and have them on the podcast,
but I've been so impressed by Wealthfront that I've invested a significant
amount of my own money,
at least for me,
uh,
in the team and the company itself.
So I am an investor and hope to soon use it as a client.
Now back to the recommendation as a Tim Ferriss show listener,
you'll get $15,000 managed for free if you decide to open an account.
But just start with seeing the portfolio that they would suggest for you.
Take two minutes,
fill out their questionnaire@wealthfront.com slash Tim it's fast,
it's free.
There's no downside that I can think of.